Conclusions:

The dataset included 1898 orders, each with information on order_id,

customer_id, restaurant_name, cuisine_type, cost_of_the_order, day_of_the_week', 'rating', food_preparation_time, and delivery_time.

Most columns contained either integers or objects, and the cost of the order was float.

There was no missing values in the data, apart from 736 rows in the ‘rating’ column containing ‘Not given’ strings.

The average cost of the order was $16.50. The average food preparation time was 27.37 minutes. The minimum time it takes for food to be prepared once an order is placed is 20.00 minutes. The maximum time it takes for food to be prepared once an order is placed is 35.00 minutes. The average delivery time was 24.16.

The most common order was American food, followed by Japanese food. Spanish and Vietnamese food were the least common order.

Cost of orders were most commonly between 10 and 15 dollars.

71.18% of orders were made on the weekend. People are much more likely to order food on a weekend than a weekday.

Of the rows that did have a rating, all ratings were at least a 3.

The time it took to prepare and deliver the order did not have much of an impact on rating.

The top 5 restaurants in terms of the number of orders received were Shake Shack, The Meatball Shop, Blue Ribbon Sushi, Blue Ribbon Fried Chicken, and Parm.

The most popular cuisine on weekends and on weekdays is American, followed by Japanese.

29.24% of the orders cost more than 20 dollars.

The top customers were: customer 52832, who placed 13 orders, customer 47440, who placed 10 orders, and customer 83287, who placed 9 orders.

There were no strong correlations between any of the variables.

Positive correlations include food_preperation_time and delivery_time, cost_of_the_order and food_preperation_time, cost_of_order and rating_num

Negative correlations include cost_of_the_order and delivery_time, rating_num and food_prepation_time, rating_num and delivery_time.

Vietnamese has the lowest prices, yet it was the least common cuisine type in our dataset.

Korean food has the least amount of variability in price, although it has a few outliers on both ends of the boxplot.

Mediterranean food is typically average priced; however, there were many outliers on the upper end of the boxplot, indicating it can be very expensive.

50% of southern food lies between around $12-29 (very wide range).

Korean food tended to be the quickest to prepare, and the quickest delivery. French food tended to take longer to deliver.

Vietnamese and Korean had the lowest average ratings.

Spanish and Thai had the highest average ratings.

Vietnamese food tends to get significantly lower ratings when it is a weekday versus weekend.

Most of the extremely cheap orders had good ratings.

Ratings seem pretty constant across every price point. This means rating is not dependent on the price of the food.

Cheaper Korean food tends to get higher ratings.

Price does seem to matter for Vietnamese food, as lower rated Vietnamese food tended to be lower-priced, and higher rated Vietnamese food tended to be higher priced.

However, for many cuisine types, the rating did not seem to be dependent on the price.

There is no relationship between the food preparation time and the cost of the order. There is also no relationship between cost of order and delivery time.

The orders on weekends tended to take much longer to deliver.

50% of orders on weekends took less delivery time than any orders on weekdays.

Ratings do not seem to vary depending on how much time it takes to prepare or deliver the food.

Because the company charges the restaurant 25% on the orders having cost greater than 20 dollars and 15% on the orders having cost greater than 5 dollars, the net revenue generated by the company across all orders is $6166.30.

10.54% of orders take more than 60 minutes to get delivered from the time the order is placed.

The mean delivery time for weekdays is 28.34, and the mean delivery time for weekends is 22.47. Orders take longer to deliver on weekdays versus weekends.



Business Recommendations:

Of the rows that did have a rating, all ratings were at least a 3. So, every person that rated their order was at least relatively satisfied with their order. This could mean that the people that were dissatisfied with their order were less likely to rate their order. So, I recommend incentivizing customers to rate their order, so we can have more data on possibly poorly rated orders, and figure out how to improve those. The time it took to prepare and deliver the order did not have much of an impact on rating, so I would recommend prioritizing quality over speed.

Vietnamese food tends to get significantly lower ratings when it is a weekday versus weekend, so I would recommend to market Vietnamese food more on weekends, so that ratings improve.

Cheaper Korean food tends to get higher ratings, so I suggest that these Korean restaurants that are receiving very high ratings should raise their prices, which would increase this company’s revenue because it benefits much more from higher priced orders since it charges the restaurant 25% on the orders having cost greater than 20 dollars and 15% on the orders having cost greater than 5 dollars.

There is no relationship between the food preparation time and the cost of the order. There is also no relationship between cost of order and delivery time. However, I would suggest raising the price for orders that are able to be prepared and delivered much quicker. Or, there could be an added option of speedy delivery that costs extra. This would be particularly advantageous because ratings do not vary based on delivery/preparation time, so ratings would likely not be impacted.

The orders on weekends tended to take much longer to deliver, so I recommend prioritizing having more delivery employees on the weekends than the weekdays.
